<h2 align="center">Interview Questions</h2>

#### C# and .NET Core

##### 1. What are differences between .NET Framework and .NET Core.
  - Framework can only create serve-based application on Windows.
  - .Net Core is cross platform


##### 2. Can you explain some new features from C# 7, 8,9 and 10 version?
  - 7: out variables, pattern matching, local function...
  - 8: readonly members, default interface methods (major)
  - 9: support for code generator
  - 10: record struct
  - https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/csharp/whats-new/csharp-version-history

##### 3. What is garbage collector? What is its purpose? What are the different generations in garbage collector?
  - an automatic memory manager
  - GC considers unreachable objects garbage and releases the memory allocated for them
  - generation 0: short-lived object (temp variables)
  - generation 1: short-lived object, buffer between short-lived and long-lived 
  - generation 2: long-lived onject


##### 4. What is the difference between value type and reference type variables? What is boxing and unboxing in reference type variable?
  - value type: contain the real data 
  - reference: store reference to the data 
  - boxing: value type to object type,  to any interface type implemented by this value type
  - unboxing: extract value type from object


##### 5. What is meant by the terms managed resource and unmanaged resource in .NET
  - unmanaged resource: not directly under control of gabage collector


##### 6. What is IDisposable interface and it’s dispose method, does it depend on garbage collector and where would you use IDisposable interface?
  - an interface that contains a single method, Dispose()
  - for releasing unmanaged resources, like files, streams, database connections and so on
  
##### 7. What is Reflection? Give me examples of where you have used Reflection?
  -  retrieve metadata on types at runtime
  -  retrieve information on the loaded assemblies and the types defined in them


##### 8. Explain Serialization and how can we achieve XML and JSON serialization
  - onverting an object into a stream of bytes
  - JSON serialization serializes the public properties of an object into a string, byte array, or stream 
  - Use a JsonSerializerOptions object
  - XML serialization -> XML stream
  - System.Xml.Serialization contains classes for serializing and deserializing XML


##### 9. Explain different access modifiers in C#?
  - public
  - private
  - protected
  - internal
  - protected internal
  - private protected


##### 10.Explain following keywords in C#
  - static
  - var
  - sealed: forbidden inheritance
  - const vs readonly
  - ref vs out
  - yield: use to do custom stateful iteration over a collection
  - record
  - partial
  - try catch finally
  - using statement and using directive:
      - directive: bring a namespace into scope (StringBuilder sb = new StringBuilder();)
  - abstract
  - override
  - dynamic:  a variable's type can change or that it is not known until runtime


#### 11. Explain scenarios where you would use String vs StringBuilder?
  - StringBuilder: repeated modifications to a string or concatenate many strings together


12. Explain Object-Oriented Concepts (OOPS) in .NET with examples from your project
  - Abstraction
  - Encapsulation
  - Inheritance
  - Polymorphism

#### 13. Compare virtual methods and abstract methods?
  - abstract only implementation
  - virtual:  indication to the compiler that a method may be overridden 
  
  
#### 14. Differences between overloading and overriding?
  - overloading method: constructor, same method name with different params
  - overriding: same signature


#### 15. What are generics and tell me scenarios where you have generics in your projects? What does generic constraints do?
  - Allow type to be a parameter
  - generics: write a class or method that can work with any data type
  - generic constraints: for specific data type (where T: struct)

 
#### 16. What is the difference between a generic and a non-generic collection? What are the different collection classes in C
  - Generic collections are strongly typed  
  - non-generic collection: arraylist
  - generic collection: list, dict, stack, queue
  
#### 17. Why do you think we need an abstract class, why do you need an interface? Give few examples, where you have used abstract classes and interfaces in your project.
  - hide the actual implementation

#### 18. What are extension methods and give me examples of built-in extension methods. Have you created an extension method in your project? If yes, how with examples?
  - Add methods to existing types without creating a new derived type, recompling, or modified the original type
  - they are static method.


#### 19. What are lambda expressions, where have u used lambda expressions
  - Define inline implementation of a functional interface
  -  a short form for writing an anonymous class
  
#### 20. Tell what is LINQ? And give me scenarios where you have used LINQ in your projects.
  - Language integrated Query
  - Query database on  c#


#### 21. Differed Execution and immediate execution in LINQ?
  - Differed execution: the query is actually executed when the query variable is created
  - .count(), toList(), toArray() -> immediate execution
  
#### 22. Write LINQ, GroupBy, Join, and Where conditions.

  - Query syntax and method syntax
```    
Var query= from a 
	Join b
  Where…
	Groupby 
	select
```


#### 23. Differences between First, FirstOrDefault, Single, SingleOrDefault in LINQ
  - First(): return first elem in collection, exception if no result is returned
  - FirstOrDefault(): same as First(), but not thrown any exception when no result
  - Select Top 1
  
  - Single(): return exactly one elem, exception when no result or more than 1 results
  - SingleOrDefault(): same as Single(), but it handle the null value
  - select...
  
#### 24. Anonymous types and methods
  - var v = new {}
  - anonymous methods peovide a technique to pass a code block as a delegate parameter
  - lambda expression as a simple, more concise, functional syntax to write AM.
  
#### 25. What are delegates in .NET, and can you tell differences between Func, Action and Predicate.
  - delegate: pass methods as parameter
  - different return types: Action null, func returns any, predicate returns boolean


#### 26. What is difference between IEnumerable and IQueryable
  -  IQueryable queries out-of-memory data stores
  -  IEnumerable queries in-memory data
  -  IQueryable is part of . NET's System. LINQ namespace
  -  IEnumerable is in System.
  
#### 27. Explain async and await keywords in C#. Give me scenarios where you have you used in your projects?
  - asynchronous programming for fast computution
  
#### 28. Do you know how can we make HTTP Requests in C#? Can you explain what c is?
  - the client uses components of a URL to make a request, 
  - request methods: get, post, delete, put, patch
  - IHttpContextAccessor: accessing HttpContext property
  
#### 29. Difference between Task vs Thread vs Process
 - process: when a program is executed
 - task: run them asynchronously
 - A Thread is a lower-level implementation while a Task is a higher-level implementation

#### 30. What does lock keyword does? Give me example of it where you have used?
 - one thread does not enter a critical section of code while another thread is in the critical section
 - Synchronization -lock the shared resouces

#### 31. Can you tell difference between Task.WhenAll and Task.WhenAny?
 - WhenAll returns control after all tasks are completed, while WhenAny returns control as soon as a single task is completed.
 
#### 32. What’s is the purpose of ConfigureAwait() ?
 - avoid forcing the callback to be invoked on the original context or scheduler. 
 - This has a few benefits: Improving performance

#### 33. What’s the difference between asynchronous programming and Multithreaded programming?
 - Asynchronous programming is about the asynchronous sequence of Tasks
 - multithreading is about multiple threads running in parallel. 
 - independent tasks multithrading 
<hr>









  
