
<h2 align="center">ASP.NET Core</h2>

#### 1. What is Kestrel? How to use Kestrel in asp.net Core application?

- a cross-platform web server for ASP.NET Core
- enabled by default in ASP.NET Core project templates.

#### 2. What is asp.net core Middleware and How it is different from HttpModule? What are some built-in middleware(s) with asp.net Core?

- controls how our application responds to HTTP requests, how our application looks when there is an error
- HTTP modules: part of the ASP.NET request pipeline 
  - configured via web.config or Global.asax 
  - The order of execution of HttpModules can’t be changed
- Middleware is registered via code inside an ASP.NET Core application 
  - order or execution can be altered or skipped when needed
- built-in middleware
  - Authentication: authentication support
  - CORS: Configures Cross-Origin Resource Sharing
  - Routing: Define and constrain request routes
  - Session: Provides support for managing user sessions
  - Diagnostics: Includes support for error pages and runtime information


#### 3. What are some custom Middlewares you created? How did you register them?

    app.UseMiddleware<GlobalExceptionMiddleware>
    


#### 4. What does Configure () and ConfigureServices () methods do Startup.cs do?
- Configure Service(): It is used to add services to the container and configure those services. 
- Configure(): it is used to specify how the asp.net core application will respond to individual requests
  
  

#### 5. What is Dependency Injection and what are different scopes in asp.net core Dependency Injection
  - technique whereby one object supplies the dependencies of another object.
  - three ways
  
      - constructor Injection, method Injection, property injection
     
  - scoped
      - AddTransient: Transient objects are always different; a new instance is provided to every controller and every service.
      - AddScoped: Scoped objects are the same within a request, but different across different requests.
      - AddSingleton: Singleton objects are the same for every object and every request.
      
      
            
#### 6. What is the use of the “launchsettings.json” file and “appsettings.json” file?
- launchsettings: 
  - used to store the configuration information, which describes how to start the ASP.NET Core application
  - used only during the development of the application using Visual Studio
- appsettings:
  -  store the application configuration settings such as database connection strings, any application scope global variables,etc. 
  
  
<hr>

#### 7. What is the “Developer Exception Page” in asp.net Core? How can we configure custom exception handling page in asp.net core?

- Developer Exception Page: displays detailed information about unhandled request exceptions.
- UseExceptionHandler




#### 8. How to configure the logging framework in asp.net core? What is third party logging framework that supported by asp.net core?
- configure the logging framework in appsetting.json
- serilog


#### 9. What is the use of a filter in the asp.net core application? Explain the filter types available in the asp.net core application?

- filter:  allow code to run before or after specific stages in the request processing pipeline
- types:
    - Authorization filters
    - Resource filters
      - OnResourceExecuting runs code before the rest of the filter pipeline
      - OnResourceExecuted runs code after the rest of the pipeline has completed.
    - Action filters
    - Exception filters
    - Result filters


#### 10. What are some custom Filters you created? How to define a Global filter in asp.net core?
- implement relevant specific interfaces
- IAuthorizationFilter, IActionFilter...
- global: program.cs
  - AddMvc().AddMvcOptions


#### 11. What is your understanding of Caching? How did you use Caching in your application? In-memory or Distributed caching? Give me some examples where caching is useful.
- A distributed cache is a system that pools together the random-access memory (RAM) of multiple networked computers into a single in-memory data store used as a data cache to provide fast access to data.

#### 12. Do you know what is model binding in asp.net core, how is it useful for developers?
- a well-designed bridge between the HTTP request and the C# action methods
- developers can work with data from views because it has been transferred into a data model by .NET MVC default binders

#### 13. Explain what Routing is along with attribute Routing
- Routing is how Web API matches a URI to an action.
- attribute routing uses attributes to define routes. Attribute routing gives you more control over the URIs in your web API.
- [Route("{id:nonzero}")]


#### 14. How did you validate your models? Any experience with FluentValidation library?
- most validation is done using Data Annotations:
- validation attributes
  - [Required]
  - [StringLength(1000)]
- 
