<h2 align="center"> Entity Framework/ORM/Dapper </h2>


#### 1. What is an ORM? What are the advantages of Entity Framework over ado .net ?
     ORM: object relational mapping.
     Entity Framework: it handles the database operations with less time and less effort.
     Its fast and straight forward using LINQ/FE objects For Add/Modify/Delete/Update.
     
#### 2. Disadvantages of EF and how would you improve the performances of EF?

      Lazy loading is the main drawbacks of EF. 
      Its syntax is complicated. 
      Its logical schema is not able to understand business entities and relation among each other.
      Logical schema of database is not capable of using certain parts of application.
      
     Avoid to put all the DB Objects into One Single Entity Model.
     Disable change tracking for entity if not needed
     Use Pre-Generating Views to reduce response time for first request


#### 3. What are the different approaches you can use in EF and which approach did you use & why?
           Code First, 
           Model First,
           and Database First.

#### 4. Do you have experience with any other ORMs such as Dapper?
          Dapper as database first
          
#### 5. Explain what are main differences between Dapper and Entity Framework and which one would you prefer in what scenarios?
     
          Typically, Database First vs. Code First
          Dapper:  writing stored procedures or writing native query 
          
#### 6. Explain the steps of code first approach with migrations.
          connection string
          add-miagrate 
          updata-database
          
          Create an initial database that works with your EF model
          Generating migrations to keep track of changes you make to your EF model
          Keep your database up to date with those changes
          
#### 7. What are DbSet and DbContext classes in Entity Framework?
          The DbSet class represents an entity set that can be used for create, read, update, and delete operations. 
          The context class (derived from DbContext ) must include the DbSet type properties for the entities which map to database tables and views.

#### 8. What is Fluent API in and how is it different from Data annotations ?
 Fluent API is an advanced way of specifying model configuration. It has everything that Data annotations havr and more.

#### 9. What difference does .AsNoTracking() make?
          optimise the performance:
          not to track the results of a query

#### 10. When would you use Skip() and Take() methods in Entity Framework ?
           Take operator to return a given number of elements 
           Skip operator to skip over a given number of elements 
           
#### 11. What is the difference between lazy loading and eager loading? What is N + 1 problem. Which one did you use in your projects?
          While lazy loading delays the initialization of a resource, eager loading initializes or loads a resource as soon as the code is executed.
          
          The N+1 query antipattern happens when a query is executed for every result of a previous query. 
#### 12. How would you see the SQL queries generated by Entity Framework? What tools or coding would you implement?
          LINQ

#### 13. What will Entity Framework return IQueryable or IEnumerable?
          IQueryable queries out-of-memory data stores, while IEnumerable queries in-memory data.

#### 14. How do you disable lazy loading in Entity Framework and what is the use of virtual keyword?
          To turn off lazy loading for all entities in the context, set its configuration property to false.
          You should use virtual keyword, when you want to load data with lazy loading
          
